---
publish: "true"
---
#ToDecide #todo 

# The Process of Binding

Almost all fresh recruits are acquired as [[1. Overview#Hunts & Crusades in Reality|Tribute or Loot]] and only extremely rarely would an actual volunteer join the Warden's ranks.

Potential Novices get taken in typically when they are between 12 years and 16 years old. The slow flow of time within the [[The Mirror & The Veil|Mirror]] allows for adequate indoctrination and training either way.

Typically the new *Unbound* are escorted across the Veil and through the Mirror by a veteran Band of Wardens. Typically and expectedly during this treck, the first succumb to the *Fracture*, weak willed and easily corrupted they quickly turn into Monsters, Murderers, Traitors and Mutants. No pyre or vote needed. They are not Wardens, and they never will be. They are swiftly dealt with and no tear is shed.

> [!Aside|no-i]
> At any point during the training process a possible future Band might crystallize itself. In such cases, no matter at what point each Unbound currently is, they are immediately moved from the common barracks to a Band's quarters. From this day on, no matter what the future may bring, these Unbound are a Family, a Unit, a future Band.

When the surviving *Unbound* finally reach [[5. The Hearth|The Hearth]], the training and testing begins in earnest. 

It typically is structure like this (But deviations and individual adjustments are always possible and frequent):

- Around four years of theory: Indoctrination; teaching of history, dogma & tenets; the mirror and the ever looming risk of fracture 

- Around four years of practice: Physical exercise; Hardening; Combat & Weapons training; Overseen excursions outside of the *Hearth*'s territory
  
- At any point during these 8 years the Unbound are closely monitored by the rotating Stewards. Any signs of corruption are immediately rooted out.

---

## Naming conventions

Any potential future Warden is stripped of their family names upon becoming part of the Ward. 

During the first parts of training they are addressed as Unrisen (Name pending), their name only being used sparingly.

Only upon successfully completing their Tempering Hunt, the Novices officially earn the title of Risen (Name pending) and are considered members of the Ward, albeit not full members yet.

