---
publish: "true"
---
#ToDecide #todo 
# Naming Options: (Help me out here)

Prefixes:
- The Wardens...
- The Custodians...
- The Conclave...
- ...
- Ideas?

Suffixes:
- ...of the Shattered Veil
- ...of Ash
- ...of Shadows
- ...
- Ideas?

---
# Overview:

An ancient order of Knights, thrust into the ever-shifting landscape of [[The Mirror & The Veil|The Mirror]] centuries ago, during the [[The Great Calamity|Calamity]]. They still inhabit what is left of their former keep, The Hearth, the crumbling structure anchored in relative stability by ancient, yet slowly waning wards. 

The Ward clings to existence and self-preservation despite the inevitability of being consumed and changed beyond recognition in the end. This forced them to adapt their traditions long ago. They zealously rely on these protocols, dogmas and their existence hinges on them. 

Physically they embrace, in very ritualized, controlled ways, the inevitable change. Slowly, in calculated doses to minimize risk, neophytes (The Proselytes) are exposed to the mutating reality that is ever-present for the conclave.

Occurring changes are closely monitored and members, not only proselytes, that show signs of moral corruption, degradation and risk of turning on their brothers and sisters are swiftly, mercilessly and without fault executed by fire. 

These cullings of individuals and even entire groups are not cruel, but necessary to ensure the conclaves's survival. Not only proselytes are subject to constant scrutiny, but even revered Hunters up until the Lord Commander are closely monitored by the collective. The cleansing flame waits for all those who fall from grace. The Ward must endure.

Centuries of exposure to *The Mirror* and embracing it's effects have, in addition to twisting and mutating them beyond recognition, taken an irreversible toll on the order: They are forever incapable of fully, permanently returning to whats left of Reality. 

Any incursion lead by the Ward are limited to a few days at most, the Wardens quickly weakening, fading, draining away. So, for better or worse, they are forever bound to accept *The Mirror* as their home. 

---
# The Tenets - Core Doctrinal Concepts & Principles

These are at the very core of the Warden's existence. Forged and refined over centuries they are a distillation of the contradicting foundation the Ward is build upon. 
<br>

> [!Quote] Lord Librarian Duncan Farsight<br>127 AC
> "We may be Custodians of Humanity in a sea of Darkness, but we are also hunters. Predators fighting our way to the top"

<br>

##### I. Survival of the Ward exceeds all. Our commitment to its continued existence is absolute. Brotherhood, honor, friendship and compassion shall turn to dust before the Hearth falls to corruption.
<br>

##### II. Cherish your Kin, Trust them with your life. But never trust blindly. For tomorrow a Black Bond might come.
<br>

##### III. The Ward is your tribe, your Band is your Family. You will gladly die for both.
<br>

##### IV. Know your Kin like you know yourself. Celebrate with them, mourn the faded. Uphold the Memory.
<br>

##### V. Uphold the Ember that burns in your heart. For the Light shall guide your path, it shall shine bright in the face of the Horror. It shall flicker and die when the cleansing flames consume your soul.
<br>

##### VI: Embrace the change, for it makes you strong. Watch out for Corruption, in yourself and in your Kin.
<br>

##### VII The day and Black Bond comes for our Brothers and Sisters, or ourselves, we shall lay down our arms and repent. For it is on us to see the seeds of corruption taking root.
<br>

##### VIII. The Hunt is the Charge laid upon us, the path that was appointed. We shall not falter, for we are the true Custodians, standing between humanity and the horrors creeping in the dark. 


---

# The Hunt
<br>

> [!Quote] Attributed to the First Wardens
> “The Mirror hunts us without pause.  
> To survive, we learned to hunt it back.”

The Hunt is not an act of glory, nor a calling born of zeal.  
It is the discipline by which the Ward endures, the burden laid upon it to stand guard at the precipice.

Every blade drawn, every arrow loosed, every flame kindled is a measured answer to a hostile world that never rests, never seizes its attempts to drag humanity into darkness. 

To refuse the Hunt is to invite extinction. To hunt without doctrine is to descend into slaughter, to become mere butchers.

The Ward does neither.

The Hunt encompasses all sanctioned acts of force and armed excursions undertaken by the Ward - whether against the mirror-born, the corrupted, or Humanity itself when doctrine demands it. Tracking, culling, warding, crusade, reprisal, protection and extermination.

Whether in the Wilds of the Mirror or beyond the Veil, to hunt is to expose oneself to the Mirror, to invite change, and to risk becoming what must be destroyed.

For these reasons, The Hunt is bound by law older than any living Warden.

See [[4. The Hunt]] for details about the *Doctrine of the Hunt*
<br>

---

## Hunts & Crusades in Reality:

*The Ward*, despite appearing barely Human to those who lay eyes on them, still needs the resources any human society needs. Food, water, ore, timber, manpower. All of these can not reliably be found in *The Mirror*.

To compensate, *The Ward* has taken to combining resource-collection with finding purpose beyond mere existence and enduring. They might not be able to permanently return to reality, but they **can** cross [[The Mirror & The Veil|The Veil]] temporarily.

These excursions aim to:
- Gain insight and information about the state of (and time passed in) Reality
- Fight for Humanity against the mirror-born horrors
- Collect tribute in form of resources and proselytes from communities under their protection
- Ensure communities uphold *The Ward*'s moral and ethic dogmas
- Communities that are openly antagonistic towards *The Ward*, refuse to pay tribute, or slaughter mirror-born without evaluation, are sure to pay the price.

---
## Hunts & Quests in the Mirror

- Details about them (Establishing foothold, Securing areas for watchtowers, Finding thin-veiled locations, unearthing artifacts), eradication of Horrors


---
# The Hearth:

- Details about the Headquarters of the Conclave
- See [[5. The Hearth|The Hearth]]

## The Tendrils:

- Details about the Outposts, Watchtowers and Cleansed Areas
- [[6. The Tendrils (Name pending)|The Tendrils]]

---
# Order Structure, Traditions, Naming Conventions and Hierarchy (Please suggest improvements!):
<br>

## I. The Order Itself

- The Ward
	- The entirety of the order, the collective body, doctrine, and survival mechanism.

- The Black Web
	- The concept describes the overarching structure that holds it in existence, with the Lords in the Center and the Bands uniformly spread out and no part stronger then the weakest link.

- The Conclave
	- Used interchangeably with the Ward to emphasize its ruling, doctrinal, and ritual aspect.

- The Hearth
	- The headquarters / keep of the Ward, anchored in relative stability within the Mirror.

- The Mirror
	- The hostile, mutable realm that is now the Ward’s permanent home.

- The Veil
	- The boundary between Reality and the Mirror.

- The Wilds
	- The entirety of the Mirror outside of the Ward’s permanent realm of control

## II. Members & Status

- Warden
	- Full, initialized members of the Ward.
	- **All** members of the Ward are Wardens, from the rank and file up to the Lord Commander

- Kin
	- Meaning interchangeably with "Warden" but used more often in private, unofficial contexts

- The Unrisen / The Unbound
	- Initiates and proselytes undergoing controlled exposure and awaiting final evaluation
	- Observe, bear the marks, serve and get bound, so you may rise one day

- Cubs/Fledglings
	- Unofficial naming convention for freshly risen/bound that have passed their final evaluation

- The Quiet
	- Wardens sentenced to "The Muting": tongueless, depowered, partially lobotomized. Used as warning, ultimate punishment and tasked with anonymizing reports filed by Watchers, issuing randomized Watchings, revealing the names of the Watched after the Jury (name pending #ToDecide) has issued a guilt sentence

## III. Organizational Units

- The Band (Name pending, #ToDecide)
	- Smallest & closest operational and social unit (4–8 Wardens).
	- Alternative names, many may be in circulation as slang: Cell, Pack, Unit
	- Trained and bound together, mostly for life, except for Succourings, Partings and Sunderings
	- Mutations compliment each other
	- One cohesive unit. More like Family than comrades
	- See [[2. The Band|The Band]] for more details

- The Stewards
	- Not a dedicated organization but a role
	- Any Band can at any time be transferred to Stewardship
	- Not a punishment but part of the standard Transferring circle
	- Tasked with securing the Hearth, daily chores, assisting the Leadership

- The Bond
	- Two or more Bands working together for a predetermined amount of time and towards a set goal

- The Black Bond
	- Two or more Bands assigned with executing a Judgement towards a individual Warden or a Band
	- Also known as the Ashwardens
<br>
## IV. Hierarchy & Titles (Names pending. #ToDecide)

### High Authority 

- Lord Commander
	- Military leader of the Ward.

- Lord Librarian
	- Spiritual, doctrinal, and ideological authority.

- High Wardens
	- Very few in number; senior figures (Hunters, Stewards, Warriors).
	- Coordinate Ward Marshals

###  Command & Coordination

- Ward Marshals
	- Coordinate multiple Bands; oversee Succourings, Bondings, Transferrings and general deployment and logistics

- Bandmasters
	- Tactical leaders of a Band; final authority in the field.
	- Not a permanent position, rotates according to Hunt requirements
<br>
## VI Rules & Traditions
<br>

### Severance and Unity - Internal Transfers, Routine  Mechanisms & Social Control

- The Succouring
	- Temporary reassignment of Wardens between Bands.
	- Used to bolster unit strength, Lend specific talents, share experience and similar reasons
	- Is always communicated to The Quiet in case a Watching is planned

- The Transferring
	- Periodic and mandatory reassignment of roles, routes, and routines of entire Cells
	- Prevents stagnation, ensures flexibility and reduces possible corruption

- The Bonding
	- Joint deployments of multiple Bands to reinforce cooperation, cohesion, cross-unit bonding and cross-observation.

- The Stewardship
	- Any Band can at any time be transferred to Stewardship
	- Not a punishment but part of the standard Transferring circle
	- Tasked with securing the Hearth, daily chores, assisting the Leadership

- The Joy
	- Bands are actively encouraged to develop traditions, rituals and patterns that suit every member, strengthen unity and bolster morale
	- Wardens may openly show quirks and be individually distinctive
	- These freedoms end without comprise where they undermine Ward-traditions, Collective unity and invite corruption 

- The Self
	- Wardens on a individual level may and should pursue goals, ambitions, passions that bring them satisfaction and validation. Most often these tend to manifest in the form of martial prowess, meditation and other obviously beneficial skills for the daily life in the mirror. But some Wardens also paint, draw, sculpt, write, debate, and many more activities that seem less beneficial. The true reason *The Self* is part of the doctrine is, that it keeps the Horrors of the mind at bay, grounds the Wardens in a glimpse of reality, of a life they will never know.
<br>
### The Quiet Watch - Observation, Surveillance, Evaluation & Judgment

- The Watch
	- A covert observation assignment to a Watcher by The Quiet
	- Always masked as, and in conjunction with a regular Succouring or a Stewardship transferral
	- Documents missteps, alarming behavior, tenant-oversteps in general
	- Files reports and delivers them to The Quiet

- The Watchers
	- Any eligible Warden temporarily assigned by The Quiet to conduct a Watch
	- Always anonymous, only The Quiet knows who is currently Watcher
	- Having undergone past Evaluations prohibits a Warden from ever being a Watcher

- The Witnesses
	- Only in extremely rare cases, mostly when the Jury can not decide between a Parting and a Sundering, the Quiet reveal the identity of the Wacher that filed a report
	- The Watcher then becomes a Witness and speaks before the Jury

- The Quiet
	- A collective of Mutes. Tasked with anonymizing Watch-reports, delivering them to the Jury and revealing Identity of the Scrutinized only after a guilty charge is cast.
	- Also randomly chooses Bands to undergo a Watching, assigns Watchers and coordinates Watches with scheduled Succourings or Stewardships
	- Chooses and assigns Black Bonds to carry out the execution of Judgements
	- The Muted are ritual components integral to the execution of the Watch system, not an independent body of power.

- The Jury
	- Seventeen randomly chosen Wardens that get summoned by the Quiet whenever a Watch has ended
	- Each Jury only meets once in the same constellation and only decides on one Judging
	- Any Warden eligible for duty as Watcher is also eligible as Judge
<br>
### The Unhallowed Acts - Major Misconducts  & Boundaries

- Breaking of Tenets & Doctrine
- Detrimental Change
- Stagnation
- Corruption 
- Loyalty shifts
- Scheming
- Lying
- ...


### The Judgements:

- The Marking
	- A Warden that has been evaluated and only a very minor infraction has been detected, the individual is considered Marked
	- Markings are always anonymous and only the Quiet track them to a name
	- The Warden in question is not informed
	- If a Marked gains a second Mark at any time, the sentence is automatically at least Parting

- The Parting
	- Social and structural severance for one specific Warden
	- Forced, permanent reassignment to another Band to sever unhealthy ties, prevent infighting and shatter budding rebellion

- The Sundering
	- Social and structural severance for an entire Band
	- The Band is permanently disbanded and its members are each assigned to a different Band

- The Muting
	- The Warden is stripped of all his ranks, powers and identity
	- Tongue removal and partial lobotomy
	- The Muted serves in The Quiet for life

- The Erasure
	- Execution by fire. Can apply to individuals or entire Bands.


---
### The Execution

- Carried out by the Black Bonds
- Black Bonds are not permanent executioners but get assigned by The Quiet on a per Judgement basis
- Chosen randomly by The Quiet and always at least two Bands strong

---
