---
publish: "true"
---
#todo 
# Overview

The Wardbearer is a Band's guide through the twisted, ever-changing Wilderness of the *Mirror*. It is the Wardbearer that can sense the location of thin-veiled areas. It is them who posses the means and mastery to tear open the *Veil* and guide their Kin into Reality.

The Wardbearer is also the one responsible for securing, as much as that is possible in the Mirror, the Band's campsites with minor wards, circles and incense. Without the Wardbearer the Band is stranded in a sea of terror. A jungle that wants nothing more then to strangle and twist them. For as fierce as the [[2.4. The Hunters|Hunter]] fights, all Wardens can fight. None but the Wardbearer can guide them home. And all to often they pay a terrible price for their service.

---
## Mandatory Weaves:

These Weaves *must* be mastered on at least a basic level by every potential Wardbearer. Inability to do so does not necessarily result in *Erasure* but bars this path from the *Unbound* in question.
<br>
##### **Piercing the Veil**
This incantation is the means for the Wardens to cross the Veil and enter Reality. It is this Weave, and it alone, that allows the Ward to endure, to repair, rearm, restock and replenish their ranks. For this reason, even among the 3 sanctioned Weaves, it is the first and most important.

> [!NOTE|no-i no-t] Title
> ***Piercing the Veil* is at least:**
> Jumper (World) [100]
> Tunnel [+40%]; Drift [-15%]; Special Portal (Rare, Thin-veiled Areas) [-40%]; Corrupting Trigger (Occasional, Mirror-Shard, 1 Ounce) [-45%]
> 
> & As per [[Veil-Scarring (Or Essence Weaving)#Mandatory Enhancements & Limitations|Mandatory Enhancements & Limitations]]:
> 
>   Based on Essence Attunement, own roll (Essence-Weaving Skill) [+20%]; Magical [-10%]; Requires Gesture [-10%]; Requires Magic Words [-10%]; Transcribable [+5%]; Attracts Threats, CR 9 [-10%]; Corrupting (1 Corr/1 ER Spend) [-20%]; 
> - Cost: 20 Pts
> 
> Costs ER/2 HP 2 [-2%]
> - Penultimate Cost: 20 Pts
> 
> - Alternative Ability: 4 Pts

<br>

##### **Sense the Veil**
This Weave is the secondary spell a Wardbearer must master. It allows them to send their senses out across the Wilds and find thin-veiled areas suitable for Crossings.


> [!NOTE|no-i no-t] Title
> ***Sense the Veil* is at least:**
> Detect (Thin-veiled areas, Rare) [5]
> Precise, Nontargeting [+90%]; Cannot Analyze [-10%]; Long-Range [+50%]; 
> 
> & As per [[Veil-Scarring (Or Essence Weaving)#Mandatory Enhancements & Limitations|Mandatory Enhancements & Limitations]]:
> 
>   Based on Essence Attunement, own roll (Essence-Weaving Skill) [+20%]; Magical [-10%]; Requires Gesture [-10%]; Requires Magic Words [-10%]; Transcribable [+5%]; Attracts Threats, CR 9 [-10%]; Corrupting (1 Corr/1 ER Spend) [-20%]; 
>   - Cost: 10 Pts
>
>   Costs ER/2 HP 1 [-1%]
>   - Penultimate Cost: 10 Pts
>   - Alternative Ability: 2 Pts

<br>

##### **Create minor Wards**
The art of creating the ancient mayor wards that to this day protect [[5. The Hearth|the Hearth]], has long been lost and forgotten. But the Wardens *are* still in posession of the knowledge on how to create minor wards. These are by orders of magnitude inferior to the major ones, but they are all that can be spared in order to protect Warden's encampments, [[6. The Tendrils (Name pending)|the Tendrils]] and other areas of interest and importance. The knowledge on how to create and activate these wards is the third part of a *Wardbearer*'s weaving-portfolio.


> [!NOTE|no-i no-t] Title
> ***Create Minor Ward* is at least:**
> - **Magical** [-10%],
- **Preperation Required** 24h [-80%],
- **Delay (Supernatural Trigger)** [+100%],
- **Attracts Threats** [-5%],,
- **Nuisance Effect (Repeated attempts at cummulative -2 for 24h)** [-5%],
- **Requires Skill-Roll (associated Aspect-skill)** [-10%],
- **Requires Focus (Carving Tools)** [-5%],
- **Environmental (Surface)** [-5%],
- **Melee Attack (Reach C, Cannot Parry)** [-35%],
- **Backlash** (only on failure, HT to resist, Effect for MoF seconds, GM rolls on Table) [-8%],
- **Corrupting** (1 Corruption point/Energy spend) [-10%],  
    
- _After_ all the above:  
    
- **Costs ER** (-5% per ER, 1 ER per 10 CP base cost) [Variable],
    - **ER only** [-5%],
    - **Reduced Fatigue Cost** is _Prohibited_!
    - **CP cost < 10 results in 1 ER cost**
- Finally _after all other calculations_ every spell gets **Alternative Ability** (Costs 1/5th)