---
publish: "true"
---

#ToDecide #todo 

It is hard to give a list of typical mutations, as they vary wildly, but these are the rough categories and examples:

##### Minor:

- Minor cosmetic like skin colour, eye colour, hair colour

- Small changes like small claws, heightened senses, supernatural talents, minor supernatural abilities

##### Major:

- Major cosmetics like charred skin, glowing eyes

- Big changes like large claws, wings, tails, extra limbs, supernatural abilities and capabilities, superhuman strength and speed, etc

---

> [!aside|no-i]
> This will talk about the importance of Will and is an aside-test
##### The Detrimental Change
- Mostly mental deterioration and personality switches
- Bloodlust, Berserk, Certain obsessions and delusions, Megalomania etc
- Some physical Changes may also be detrimental
- Niche cases exist. Some mental disadvantages might only become detrimental if failed to resist in a certain situation. (Eg. Going Berserk while fighting a Horror might only lead to a Mark, whereas going Berserk in The Hearth will certainly lead to erasure)

---

## Mechanics

While in [[The Mirror & The Veil|The Mirror]] one accumulates *Corruption Points*. Buildup depends on Area fracture level, Mirrorborn Horrors in proximity, Getting hurt/touched by Mirrorborn, Using supernatural abilities, etc.

These build up until certain thresholds are breached (Number pending). Upon breaching a threshold, two Rolls are in order: Will and HT.

Succeeding both rolls:
- No mutation
- Corruption points remain
- Roll again at next threshold (-1 for each threshold above 1)
<br>
Fail Will:
- Mental mutation 
- Corruption points are used up for a mental disadvantage or advantage
- Roll Dice (Specifics pending).
	- Fail: GM decides but most likely disad made by GM
	- Succed: Player decides, GM may veto
<br>
Fail HT:
- Physical Mutation
- Corruption points used up for a physical disadvantage or advantage
- Roll Dice (Specifics pending).
	- Fail: GM decides but most likely disad made by GM
	- Succed: Player decides, GM may veto

---


> [!NOTEno-i] Idea:
> -1 you get two beneficial mutations of your choosing.
> 0 you get a beneficial mutation of your choice and a beneficial mutation gm chooses or rolls.
> 1 you get a beneficial mutation. 2 you get a beneficial mutation you can choose and a detrimental mutation the gm chooses or rolls.
> 3-4 you get a beneficial mutation the gm chooses or rolls and a detrimental mutation you can choose.
> 5 you get a beneficial and a detrimental mutation gm chooses or rolls.
> 6 you get a detrimental mutation of your choosing.
> 7 you get a detrimental mutation the gm chooses or rolls.
> 8 you get a detrimental mutation the gm chooses and a detrimental mutation of your choosing
> 
>  Some events, actions, playing the character well or whatever you choose could give +1/+2/-1/-2 to the roll, that's why -1 to 8.
